README.md, before:

# UdonXML

[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Discord%20Support-blueviolet?logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/7xJdWNk) - Feel free to join if you have any bugs or questions!

## 🛠️ Setup

### Requirements

* Unity 2018.4.20f1
* VRCSDK3
* Latest [UdonSharp](https://github.com/Merlin-san/UdonSharp/blob/master/README.md)

### Installation

1. Go to [Releases](https://github.com/Foorack/UdonXML/releases) and download the latest release. The file should end with `unitypackage`. If you can't find it, ask for help on Discord.
2. Import the package into Unity with Assets > Import Package > Custom Package. This will import the files to `Resources > Foorack > UdonXML`.
3. Create an Empty GameObject in your Scene, name it `UdonXML` and assign it the UdonXML UdonBehaviour.

### Getting started

1. Declare a `public UdonXML udonXml;` variable in your program.
2. Assign it the value of the UdonXML GameObject in your scene.
3. Parse your XML data with LoadXml `udonXml.LoadXml(inputData.ToCharArray());`. It will return an object. Notice it takes a char[] and not a string as input, so ToCharArray is required.
4. The object returned represents the root of the xml tree, use it when executing other nodes such as `GetNodeName` or `HasChildNodes`.

### Example demo

```csharp
using UnityEngine;
using UdonSharp;

public class UdonXMLTest : UdonSharpBehaviour
{
    public UdonXML udonXml;

    private string EXAMPLE_DATA = @"<?xml version=""1.0"" encoding=""utf-8""?>  
<books xmlns=""http://www.contoso.com/books"">  
    <book genre=""novel"" ISBN=""1-861001-57-8"" publicationdate=""1823-01-28"">  
        <title>Pride And Prejudice</title>  
        <price>24.95</price>  
    </book>
    <book genre=""novel"" ISBN=""1-861002-30-1"" publicationdate=""1985-01-01"">  
        <title>The Handmaid's Tale</title>  
        <price>29.95</price>  
    </book>  
    <book genre=""novel"" ISBN=""1-861001-45-3"" publicationdate=""1811-01-01"">  
        <title>Sense and Sensibility</title>  
        <price>19.95</price>  
    </book>  
</books>";

    public void Start()
    {
		// Parse and store the root node
        var root = udonXml.LoadXml(EXAMPLE_DATA.ToCharArray());

		// Fetch the first <books> node by index
        var books = udonXml.GetChildNode(root, 0);

		// Loop over all children in the <books> node
        for (var bookNum = 0; bookNum != udonXml.GetChildNodesCount(books); bookNum++)
        {
            var book = udonXml.GetChildNode(books, bookNum);
			// Fetch <title> and <price> nodes by tag name.
            var title = udonXml.GetChildNodeByName(book, "title");
            var price = udonXml.GetChildNodeByName(book, "price");

            Debug.Log("title: " + udonXml.GetNodeValue(title) + " price: " + udonXml.GetNodeValue(price));
        }
    }
}
```

![console output](https://i.imgur.com/g0e3ooO.png)

## 📄 Documentation

### Parsing


#### 🔵 LoadXml(char[] input
Loads an XML structure into memory by parsing a char[] provided input.

Returns null in case of parse failure.


### Reading data

#### 🔵 HasChildNodes(object data)
Returns true if the node has child nodes.

#### 🔵 GetChildNodesCount(object data)
Returns the number of children the current node has.

#### 🔵 GetChildNode(object data, int index)
Returns the child node by the given index.

#### 🔵 GetChildNodeByName(object data, string nodeName)
Returns the child node by the given name.

If multiple nodes exists with the same type-name then the first one will be returned.

#### 🔵 GetNodeName(object data)
Returns the type-name of the node.

#### 🔵 GetNodeValue(object data)
Returns the value of the node.

#### 🔵 HasAttribute(object data, string attrName)
Returns whether the node has a given attribute or not.

#### 🔵 GetAttribute(object data, string attrName)
Returns the value of the attribute by given name.


## 🚛 Roadmap

* Parsing from in-memory back to an XML document.
* Allowing setting values and creating nodes.
* Improve error detection / make it stricter. Right now it allows closing tag to have a different name from opening tag, and only goes by level depth.
* Add support for DOCTYPE and storing the ?xml declaration.

Functionality of validating an XML document's compliance against an XML Schema is very far-reach and out-of-scope for the foreseeable future.

Commit message:

Added description/purpose of this project to README

README.md, after:

# UdonXML

[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Discord%20Support-blueviolet?logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/7xJdWNk) - Feel free to join if you have any bugs or questions!

UdonXML is an XML parser written in Udon for VRChat.
The purpose of this project is for it to be used as an API in other bigger projects.
This work is something the average VRChatter never will notice, but something the author hopes might be beneficial and make the life easier for world/game creators in VRChat.

An example use of this library is allowing the player to paste the entire contents of an XML file (e.g. game save file) into an Input field in VRC, and allowing the world to then parse the submitted data.
Work is currently undergoing on implementing a ZIP decoder for this same purpose, please join the Discord for notification on future updates.

## 🛠️ Setup

### Requirements

* Unity 2018.4.20f1
* VRCSDK3
* Latest [UdonSharp](https://github.com/Merlin-san/UdonSharp/blob/master/README.md)

### Installation

1. Go to [Releases](https://github.com/Foorack/UdonXML/releases) and download the latest release. The file should end with `unitypackage`. If you can't find it, ask for help on Discord.
2. Import the package into Unity with Assets > Import Package > Custom Package. This will import the files to `Resources > Foorack > UdonXML`.
3. Create an Empty GameObject in your Scene, name it `UdonXML` and assign it the UdonXML UdonBehaviour.

### Getting started

1. Declare a `public UdonXML udonXml;` variable in your program.
2. Assign it the value of the UdonXML GameObject in your scene.
3. Parse your XML data with LoadXml `udonXml.LoadXml(inputData.ToCharArray());`. It will return an object. Notice it takes a char[] and not a string as input, so ToCharArray is required.
4. The object returned represents the root of the xml tree, use it when executing other nodes such as `GetNodeName` or `HasChildNodes`.

### Example demo

```csharp
using UnityEngine;
using UdonSharp;

public class UdonXMLTest : UdonSharpBehaviour
{
    public UdonXML udonXml;

    private string EXAMPLE_DATA = @"<?xml version=""1.0"" encoding=""utf-8""?>  
<books xmlns=""http://www.contoso.com/books"">  
    <book genre=""novel"" ISBN=""1-861001-57-8"" publicationdate=""1823-01-28"">  
        <title>Pride And Prejudice</title>  
        <price>24.95</price>  
    </book>
    <book genre=""novel"" ISBN=""1-861002-30-1"" publicationdate=""1985-01-01"">  
        <title>The Handmaid's Tale</title>  
        <price>29.95</price>  
    </book>  
    <book genre=""novel"" ISBN=""1-861001-45-3"" publicationdate=""1811-01-01"">  
        <title>Sense and Sensibility</title>  
        <price>19.95</price>  
    </book>  
</books>";

    public void Start()
    {
		// Parse and store the root node
        var root = udonXml.LoadXml(EXAMPLE_DATA.ToCharArray());

		// Fetch the first <books> node by index
        var books = udonXml.GetChildNode(root, 0);

		// Loop over all children in the <books> node
        for (var bookNum = 0; bookNum != udonXml.GetChildNodesCount(books); bookNum++)
        {
            var book = udonXml.GetChildNode(books, bookNum);
			// Fetch <title> and <price> nodes by tag name.
            var title = udonXml.GetChildNodeByName(book, "title");
            var price = udonXml.GetChildNodeByName(book, "price");

            Debug.Log("title: " + udonXml.GetNodeValue(title) + " price: " + udonXml.GetNodeValue(price));
        }
    }
}
```

![console output](https://i.imgur.com/g0e3ooO.png)

## 📄 Documentation

### Parsing


#### 🔵 LoadXml(char[] input
Loads an XML structure into memory by parsing a char[] provided input.

Returns null in case of parse failure.


### Reading data

#### 🔵 HasChildNodes(object data)
Returns true if the node has child nodes.

#### 🔵 GetChildNodesCount(object data)
Returns the number of children the current node has.

#### 🔵 GetChildNode(object data, int index)
Returns the child node by the given index.

#### 🔵 GetChildNodeByName(object data, string nodeName)
Returns the child node by the given name.

If multiple nodes exists with the same type-name then the first one will be returned.

#### 🔵 GetNodeName(object data)
Returns the type-name of the node.

#### 🔵 GetNodeValue(object data)
Returns the value of the node.

#### 🔵 HasAttribute(object data, string attrName)
Returns whether the node has a given attribute or not.

#### 🔵 GetAttribute(object data, string attrName)
Returns the value of the attribute by given name.


## 🚛 Roadmap

* Parsing from in-memory back to an XML document.
* Allowing setting values and creating nodes.
* Improve error detection / make it stricter. Right now it allows closing tag to have a different name from opening tag, and only goes by level depth.
* Add support for DOCTYPE and storing the ?xml declaration.

Functionality of validating an XML document's compliance against an XML Schema is very far-reach and out-of-scope for the foreseeable future.
